Let's see what we know about capacitors so far what I have here is a positively charged plate and a
negatively charged PLATE.
THE ELECTRIC FIELD BETWEEN THE PLATES goes like this.
And again on the outside.
Let's try a different color over here on the outside.
We should have a fringing field.
It kind of looks like this again starts from the positive and ends to the negative aura and the feel
on the outside gets weaker and it's stronger between the plates.
The magnitude of that electric field again is written as Sigma over Epsilon 0.
That's the magnitude the direction we know right here just by looking at it.
So remember what sigma is Sigma is a charge density we just write this down.
So it's basically the number of cool homes we have per meter squared on those plates.
So if you think about it over here well we're gonna have a certain amount of charge which I'm gonna
write as total charge q over here and we're gonna have basically minus the same amount of charge as
the different sign on the other plate.
So how would I write my surface charge density.
Well here I would write as the total charge q on one of these plates divided by the area and a here
again is the area of each plate.
All right let's substitute that expression over here so we can write down that the magnitude of my electric
field would be the total charge on one of the plates divided by a multiplied by epsilon 0.
All right.
And we're going to take this one last step but I want to do is I want to look for an expression for
the charge the charge q here if I bring a n Epsilon zero on the other side what it ends up looking like
is Epsilon 0 and then I have the area and multiplied by the magnitude of the field.
Okay.
Let's have a look now at an expression for the field we didn't talk about the potential.
Right now if this one is positively charge and this one here is negatively charged we're going to say
that the positive one is at a higher electrical potential and we call it V Plus and the negative one
is at a lower electrical potential.
So what we have is we have a difference of electrical potential between the positive and the negative.
So in this case it would be V plus minus V minus.
All right.
That's the difference of potential.
Now if you consider the geometry of this plate these plates here are probably separated by a certain
distance.
We're going to call that.
So we previously saw that we can also write an expression for the electric field if we know the difference
of potential and it kind of looks something like this minus delta v divided by delta x delta x was a
distance over which the voltage changed over here.
For now let's not worry about this negative sign right here.
Okay.
So I'm just going to worry about the magnitude.
So let's just do this on the negative side remember just tells us the direction.
So at the end I can write this at least for this particular problem the change of voltage over here
is simply delta v what I call delta v right here and now divided by well what is this distance over
here where this voltage is changing the distance is going to be the distance between the plates I'm
going to call that D.
Okay so now what I could do is I could take my expression for the electric field and I could substitute
it right over here in the charge equation that I had.
All right so let's go and do that one more step.
Epsilon 0 a.
Again here I'm gonna have Delta V voltage between the plates and divided by the All right.
So this is actually a very very important equation right here.
So you're going to write it one more time.
I just want to group some of the terms together to put a square bracket in over here I'm gonna call
this delta V.
This term right here.
All right.
And over D let me put a box around this actually very very important equation.
What it says again in the charge q remember It's Q on one plate and the opposite charge on the other
plate.
That's what this charge means.
So if it's positive three cool ohms over here negative three columns on the other one delta v is the
difference of potential between both of those plates.
Sometimes this here is written in textbooks sometimes if you look at it's written as simply v OK.
Sometimes they drop the delta but what they really mean is the difference between the voltage between
both plates.
So actually this is a very very general equation which says that the charge is actually always proportional
to the voltage between the plates and the constant of proportionality between the plates is something
we call the capacitance.
Okay so this is actually really really important.
So let me write this over here so C is a value we call the capacitance
so it's the constant of proportionality between the charge and the voltage.
So for this parallel plate capacitor What is that constant of proportionality.
Well it's going to be the term in the square bracket right here.
So for the parallel plate we have that the capacitance is simply written as Epsilon 0 the area and divided
by the distance between the plates the formula right here that I'm gonna call the formula here in this
green box this is true for any type of capacitance.
It doesn't necessarily only apply to parallel plates what applies to parallel plates is this value right
here in the bottom.
I put it in a purple All right this here applies to parallel plates.
But this expression right here in the green box is actually quite general so we're typically always
going to have that the charge is proportional to the voltage between the plates.
All right so we're gonna be using this equation quite a bit.
So that means if I double the voltage between the plates I'm going to have twice as much charge.